Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita (BNS) - Core Sections Summary

Section 109: Organized Crime. Any continuing unlawful activity including kidnapping, robbery, vehicle theft, extortion, land grabbing, contract killing, economic offences, cyber-crimes having severe consequences, traffic in persons, drugs, weapons or illicit goods or services, weapons for human trafficking racket for prostitution or ransom by any person or a group of persons acting in concert, singly or jointly, either as a member of an organized crime syndicate or on behalf of such syndicate, by use of violence, threat of violence, intimidation, coercion, corruption or related activities or other unlawful means to obtain direct or indirect material benefit including a financial benefit, shall constitute organized crime.

Section 111: Petty Organised Crime. Any crime that causes general feelings of insecurity among citizens relating to theft of vehicle or theft from vehicle, domestic and business theft, trick theft, cargo theft, pickpocketing, theft through card skimming and shoplifting or theft committed by gang(s).

Section 113: Terrorist Act. Any act committed with the intent to threaten or likely to threaten the unity, integrity, sovereignty, security, or economic security of India or with the intent to strike terror or likely to strike terror in the people or any section of the people in India or in any foreign country.

Section 302: Snatching. Theft is snatching if in order to commit theft, the offender suddenly or quickly or forcibly seizes or secures or grabs or takes away from any person or from his possession any moveable property.

Section 304: Murder. Whoever commits murder shall be punished with death or imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine.

Section 69: Sexual intercourse by employing deceitful means. Whoever, by deceitful means or making by promise to marry to a woman without any intention of fulfilling the same, and has sexual intercourse with her, such sexual intercourse not amounting to the offence of rape, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years and shall also be liable to fine.

Section 498A (repealed) -> Now Section 85 BNS: Cruelty by husband or relatives of husband. Husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years and shall also be liable to fine.

Section 103 (1): Punishment for murder. Any person who commits murder shall be punished with death or imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine. 
